Rhino new app tutorial (#190)
Appsilon/rhino: vignettes/rhino.Rmd

First, you need to import it in your main application file.
To do that, add another `box::use` section in your `app/main.R` file:

```r
# app/main.R

box::use(
  app/view/chart
)

...
```

Now, main module will be able to use exported functions from `chart.R`.
Let's try it! Modify your `app/main.R` file to look like that:

```r
# app/main.R

box::use(
  shiny[bootstrapPage, moduleServer, NS],
)

box::use(
  app/view/chart
)

#' @export
ui <- function(id) {
  ns <- NS(id)
  bootstrapPage(
    chart$ui(ns("chart"))
  )
}

#' @export
server <- function(id) {
  moduleServer(id, function(input, output, session) {
    chart$server("chart")
  })
}
```

Now, when you run your application, you should see the message from the newly created module:

![](images/basic_tutorial/first_module.png)

## Adding components to a module

Now is the time to start adding something to your new module. What can we add to a "chart" module?
You're right, a chart. Let's add a chart with a rhinoceros dataset available in Rhino.

### Adding R packages

First, we need to install a library for visualisations -
for that, we will go with [`echarts4r`](https://echarts4r.john-coene.com/).

> Rhino forces you to use [`renv` package](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/index.html) for dependency management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rhino relies on the [`renv` package](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/index.html) for dependency management.
```

To add this package to your project, first, you need to install it:

```r
# In R console
renv::install("echarts4r")
```

The second step is to add them to `dependencies.R` file. This file is a single source of truth when it comes to
R packages used by the application. `renv` is going to check dependencies only in this file.

Add `library` calls to it:

```r
# dependencies.R

# This file allows packrat (used by rsconnect during deployment) to pick up dependencies.

> library(rhino)
> library(echarts4r)

Reviewer: I'd suggest to encourage alphabetical order.
```suggestion
library(echarts4r)
library(rhino)
```

```

Finally, you need to update your `renv.lock` file:

```r
# in R console
renv::snapshot()
```

If you check `renv.lock` file, you will see that it was updated with `echarts4r` and all its dependencies.

### Add dependencies to the module

Now, once you have both packages available in your project environment, it's time to use them.
First, you need to import them in your module. Extend `box::use` call in your
`app/view/chart.R` file:

```r
# app/view/chart.R

box::use(
  shiny[moduleServer, NS, h3, tagList],
  echarts4r,
)

...
```

> You can those packages in your module by calling `{package}${function}`. For more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use those packages in your module by calling `{package}${function}`. For more
```

      rhino::rhinos |>
        echarts4r$group_by(Species) |>
        echarts4r$e_chart(x = Year) |>
        echarts4r$e_line(Population) |>
        echarts4r$e_x_axis(Year) |>
        echarts4r$e_tooltip()
    )
  })
}
```

One thing worth noting here is that in the UI part we had to use another function
from Shiny - `tagList`. To be able to do that, you have to adjust your import
in `box::use` - simply add `tagList` to the list of imported functions.

----

Finally, when you run your application, you should see something similar to this:

![](images/basic_tutorial/chart.png)

# Add a second module

Once you have some content presented in the application, it would be great to
add a table to show the dataset.

For that, let's create another module - `app/view/table.R`:

```r
# app/view/table.R

box::use(
  shiny[moduleServer, NS, h3],
)

#' @export
ui <- function(id) {
  ns <- NS(id)

  h3("Table")
}

#' @export
server <- function(id) {
  moduleServer(id, function(input, output, session) {

  })
}
```

## Calling the second module

As we did before, we need to call the new module in `main.R` file:

```r
# app/main.R

box::use(
  shiny[bootstrapPage, moduleServer, NS],
)

box::use(

>   app/view/table,
>   app/view/chart,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  app/view/chart,
  app/view/table,
```

        echarts4r$e_tooltip()
    )
  })
}
```

## Create a table

For the table, we will go with [`reactable`](https://glin.github.io/reactable/) package.

As previously, you need to install it and add to your dependencies:

```r
# In R console
renv::install("reactable")
```

```r
# dependencies.R

# This file allows packrat (used by rsconnect during deployment) to pick up dependencies.
library(rhino)
library(echarts4r)
library(reactable)
```

```r
# in R console
renv::snapshot()
```

Now you can add a table to the application. Let's check the raw data for Rhinos:

```r
# app/view/table.R

box::use(
  shiny[moduleServer, NS, h3, tagList],
  reactable,
)

#' @export
ui <- function(id) {
  ns <- NS(id)

  tagList(
    h3("Table"),
    reactable$reactableOutput(ns("table"))
  )
}

#' @export
server <- function(id, data) {
  moduleServer(id, function(input, output, session) {
    output$table <- reactable$renderReactable(
      reactable$reactable(data)
    )
  })
}
```

The application should look similar to this:

![](images/basic_tutorial/table_1.png)

# Add logic

It seems that it would be great to slightly adjust the table. Let's transform the dataset a little bit.

> For parts of code that are not Shiny modules, we recommend storing them in `app/logic` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend to place the code which can be expressed without Shiny in `app/logic` directory.
```
